docs/options.md, before:

# Options

Open **Settings → Devices & services → Marstek → (device) → Configure**.

## Polling

The integration uses tiered polling to reduce device load:

- **Fast** (default 30s): mode/status/meter (real-time power)
- **Medium** (default 60s): PV status (Venus A/D)
- **Slow** (default 300s): WiFi + battery diagnostics

<img src="screenshots/device-settings-polling.png" alt="Polling settings" width="560" />

## Network & requests

Options also expose request timing knobs to avoid UDP bursts:

- Request delay (range 1–30s)
- Request timeout (range 5–60s)
- Failures before unavailable (range 1–10)

<img src="screenshots/device-settings-network.png" alt="Network settings" width="560" />

## Power / behavior

These settings affect automations and command validation:

- Action charge power (W): default power for the **Charge** device action
- Action discharge power (W): default power for the **Discharge** device action
- Socket limit: toggles an internal power-limit model used to validate requested power (applies to services and actions)

<img src="screenshots/device-settings-power.png" alt="Power settings" width="560" />

## Reconfigure

If you need to reconfigure the entry (e.g., after changes), use the device’s configure/reconfigure flow.

<img src="screenshots/device-reconfigure.png" alt="Reconfigure flow" width="560" />

Commit message:

Documentation: Clarify failure threshold behavior
Explains why the integration retains last known values during transient network or API instability, preventing unnecessary UI flapping until the configured "Failures before unavailable" threshold is reached. This addresses potential user confusion regarding entity status.

docs/options.md, after:

# Options

Open **Settings → Devices & services → Marstek → (device) → Configure**.

## Polling

The integration uses tiered polling to reduce device load:

- **Fast** (default 30s): mode/status/meter (real-time power)
- **Medium** (default 60s): PV status (Venus A/D)
- **Slow** (default 300s): WiFi + battery diagnostics

<img src="screenshots/device-settings-polling.png" alt="Polling settings" width="560" />

## Network & requests

Options also expose request timing knobs to avoid UDP bursts:

- Request delay (range 1–30s)
- Request timeout (range 5–60s)
- Failures before unavailable (range 1–10)

The failures threshold controls when entities are marked unavailable. Until the
threshold is reached, the integration keeps the last known values to avoid
flapping on an unstable device API.

<img src="screenshots/device-settings-network.png" alt="Network settings" width="560" />

## Power / behavior

These settings affect automations and command validation:

- Action charge power (W): default power for the **Charge** device action
- Action discharge power (W): default power for the **Discharge** device action
- Socket limit: toggles an internal power-limit model used to validate requested power (applies to services and actions)

<img src="screenshots/device-settings-power.png" alt="Power settings" width="560" />

## Reconfigure

If you need to reconfigure the entry (e.g., after changes), use the device’s configure/reconfigure flow.

<img src="screenshots/device-reconfigure.png" alt="Reconfigure flow" width="560" />
