docs/services.md, before:

# Services

The integration exposes services for advanced control and automation.

> Tip: When automating control commands, prefer calling these services rather than trying to “poke” entity state.

All services target a device via `device_id` (select the Marstek device).

## `marstek.set_passive_mode`

Set passive mode with a target power and duration.

- `device_id` (required): target Marstek device
- `power` (required, W): negative = charge, positive = discharge
	- Input range is `-5000..5000`, but the effective limit is validated per device/model (and may depend on the **Socket limit** option).
- `duration` (optional, seconds): how long to keep passive mode active (default `3600`, range `0..86400`)

<img src="screenshots/automation-passive.png" alt="Passive automation" width="520" />

## `marstek.set_manual_schedule`

Configure one schedule slot (0–9).

- `device_id` (required): target Marstek device
- `schedule_slot` (optional): slot `0..9` (default `0`)
- `start_time` (required): start time
- `end_time` (required): end time
- `power` (required, W): negative = charge, positive = discharge
	- Input range is `-5000..5000`, but the effective limit is validated per device/model (and may depend on the **Socket limit** option).
- `days` (optional): list of weekday values (default all days)
	- Valid values: `mon`, `tue`, `wed`, `thu`, `fri`, `sat`, `sun`
- `enable` (optional): enable/disable this slot (default `true`)

<img src="screenshots/automation-manual-schedule-single.png" alt="Single schedule automation" width="520" />

## `marstek.set_manual_schedules`

Configure multiple schedules at once (YAML list).

- `device_id` (required): target Marstek device
- `schedules` (required): YAML list of schedule objects
	- Required per item: `schedule_slot`, `start_time`, `end_time`
	- Optional per item: `days`, `power`, `enable`
	- `start_time`/`end_time` must be strings in `HH:MM` format

### Example YAML (common patterns)

> Replace `YOUR_DEVICE_ID` with the device ID from the device selector in the UI.

#### What to paste into the **`schedules`** input field

In the Home Assistant service UI, the `schedules` field expects **just the YAML list**. Example:

```yaml
- schedule_slot: 0
	start_time: "10:00"
	end_time: "15:30"
	days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
	power: -2000
	enable: true
- schedule_slot: 1
	start_time: "18:00"
	end_time: "22:30"
	days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
	power: 1200
	enable: true
```

#### 1) Weekday daytime charging (solar/top-up) + evening discharge (peak shaving)

```yaml
service: marstek.set_manual_schedules
data:
	device_id: YOUR_DEVICE_ID
	schedules:
		- schedule_slot: 0
			start_time: "10:00"
			end_time: "15:30"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
			power: -2000
			enable: true
		- schedule_slot: 1
			start_time: "18:00"
			end_time: "22:30"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
			power: 1200
			enable: true
```

#### 2) Nighttime charging (cheap tariff window)

```yaml
service: marstek.set_manual_schedules
data:
	device_id: YOUR_DEVICE_ID
	schedules:
		- schedule_slot: 0
			start_time: "00:30"
			end_time: "05:30"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri, sat, sun]
			power: -2500
			enable: true
```

#### 3) Weekend-only discharge (self-consumption boost)

```yaml
service: marstek.set_manual_schedules
data:
	device_id: YOUR_DEVICE_ID
	schedules:
		- schedule_slot: 2
			start_time: "09:00"
			end_time: "12:00"
			days: [sat, sun]
			power: 800
			enable: true
```

#### 4) Disable a slot without changing its stored times

```yaml
service: marstek.set_manual_schedules
data:
	device_id: YOUR_DEVICE_ID
	schedules:
		- schedule_slot: 1
			start_time: "18:00"
			end_time: "22:30"
			enable: false
```

#### 5) “Workday profile” with three time windows (morning charge, daytime idle, evening discharge)

```yaml
service: marstek.set_manual_schedules
data:
	device_id: YOUR_DEVICE_ID
	schedules:
		- schedule_slot: 0
			start_time: "06:00"
			end_time: "08:00"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
			power: -1500
			enable: true
		- schedule_slot: 1
			start_time: "12:00"
			end_time: "13:00"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
			power: 0
			enable: true
		- schedule_slot: 2
			start_time: "18:00"
			end_time: "23:00"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
			power: 1000
			enable: true
```

<img src="screenshots/automation-manual-schedule-multiple.png" alt="Multiple schedules automation" width="520" />

## `marstek.clear_manual_schedules`

Clear all manual schedule slots.

- `device_id` (required): target Marstek device

Note: This clears all 10 slots sequentially (protocol limitation), so it may take a short while.

<img src="screenshots/automation-clear-manual-schedule.png" alt="Clear schedules automation" width="520" />

## `marstek.request_data_sync`

Trigger an immediate refresh.

- `device_id` (optional): when omitted, all Marstek devices are refreshed

---

## Device Actions

The integration provides **device actions** for use in automations. These appear in the automation editor when you select "Device" as the action type and choose your Marstek battery.

<img src="screenshots/automation-action.png" alt="Device action in automation" width="520" />

### Charge battery

Starts charging the battery at the specified power.

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| Power (W) | No | Charge power in watts (0–5000). If omitted, uses the **Default charge power** from device options. |

### Discharge battery

Starts discharging the battery at the specified power.

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| Power (W) | No | Discharge power in watts (0–5000). If omitted, uses the **Default discharge power** from device options. |

### Stop charging/discharging

Immediately stops any active charge or discharge operation. No parameters required.

### Power validation

All device actions respect the **Socket limit** setting configured in [Options](options.md). If socket limit is enabled (default for Venus C/D/E), power values above 800 W will be rejected.

### Technical details

- Actions use **Manual mode** internally with a 24-hour schedule (00:00–23:59, all days)
- Commands include retry logic (up to 8 attempts) with exponential backoff
- Verification confirms the device responded correctly before completing
- Polling is paused during command execution to avoid UDP traffic conflicts

---

## Notes on safety & responsiveness

- The integration avoids concurrent UDP bursts; control actions are designed to pause polling while sending commands.
- If your device becomes unresponsive, increase request delay/timeout in [Options](options.md).

Commit message:

Maintenance: Keep services registered for integration lifetime
Removes the unloading of services when the last Marstek config entry is removed. Services are now registered once when the integration loads and remain available for its entire duration.

Updates documentation and tests to reflect this change, ensuring services are consistently available without being repeatedly registered or unregistered.

docs/services.md, after:

# Services

The integration exposes services for advanced control and automation.

> Tip: When automating control commands, prefer calling these services rather than trying to “poke” entity state.

All services target a device via `device_id` (select the Marstek device).

Services are registered when Home Assistant starts and remain available even if
no Marstek devices are currently loaded. If no matching device or config entry
is available, the service call will return an error.

## `marstek.set_passive_mode`

Set passive mode with a target power and duration.

- `device_id` (required): target Marstek device
- `power` (required, W): negative = charge, positive = discharge
	- Input range is `-5000..5000`, but the effective limit is validated per device/model (and may depend on the **Socket limit** option).
- `duration` (optional, seconds): how long to keep passive mode active (default `3600`, range `0..86400`)

<img src="screenshots/automation-passive.png" alt="Passive automation" width="520" />

## `marstek.set_manual_schedule`

Configure one schedule slot (0–9).

- `device_id` (required): target Marstek device
- `schedule_slot` (optional): slot `0..9` (default `0`)
- `start_time` (required): start time
- `end_time` (required): end time
- `power` (required, W): negative = charge, positive = discharge
	- Input range is `-5000..5000`, but the effective limit is validated per device/model (and may depend on the **Socket limit** option).
- `days` (optional): list of weekday values (default all days)
	- Valid values: `mon`, `tue`, `wed`, `thu`, `fri`, `sat`, `sun`
- `enable` (optional): enable/disable this slot (default `true`)

<img src="screenshots/automation-manual-schedule-single.png" alt="Single schedule automation" width="520" />

## `marstek.set_manual_schedules`

Configure multiple schedules at once (YAML list).

- `device_id` (required): target Marstek device
- `schedules` (required): YAML list of schedule objects
	- Required per item: `schedule_slot`, `start_time`, `end_time`
	- Optional per item: `days`, `power`, `enable`
	- `start_time`/`end_time` must be strings in `HH:MM` format

### Example YAML (common patterns)

> Replace `YOUR_DEVICE_ID` with the device ID from the device selector in the UI.

#### What to paste into the **`schedules`** input field

In the Home Assistant service UI, the `schedules` field expects **just the YAML list**. Example:

```yaml
- schedule_slot: 0
	start_time: "10:00"
	end_time: "15:30"
	days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
	power: -2000
	enable: true
- schedule_slot: 1
	start_time: "18:00"
	end_time: "22:30"
	days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
	power: 1200
	enable: true
```

#### 1) Weekday daytime charging (solar/top-up) + evening discharge (peak shaving)

```yaml
service: marstek.set_manual_schedules
data:
	device_id: YOUR_DEVICE_ID
	schedules:
		- schedule_slot: 0
			start_time: "10:00"
			end_time: "15:30"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
			power: -2000
			enable: true
		- schedule_slot: 1
			start_time: "18:00"
			end_time: "22:30"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
			power: 1200
			enable: true
```

#### 2) Nighttime charging (cheap tariff window)

```yaml
service: marstek.set_manual_schedules
data:
	device_id: YOUR_DEVICE_ID
	schedules:
		- schedule_slot: 0
			start_time: "00:30"
			end_time: "05:30"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri, sat, sun]
			power: -2500
			enable: true
```

#### 3) Weekend-only discharge (self-consumption boost)

```yaml
service: marstek.set_manual_schedules
data:
	device_id: YOUR_DEVICE_ID
	schedules:
		- schedule_slot: 2
			start_time: "09:00"
			end_time: "12:00"
			days: [sat, sun]
			power: 800
			enable: true
```

#### 4) Disable a slot without changing its stored times

```yaml
service: marstek.set_manual_schedules
data:
	device_id: YOUR_DEVICE_ID
	schedules:
		- schedule_slot: 1
			start_time: "18:00"
			end_time: "22:30"
			enable: false
```

#### 5) “Workday profile” with three time windows (morning charge, daytime idle, evening discharge)

```yaml
service: marstek.set_manual_schedules
data:
	device_id: YOUR_DEVICE_ID
	schedules:
		- schedule_slot: 0
			start_time: "06:00"
			end_time: "08:00"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
			power: -1500
			enable: true
		- schedule_slot: 1
			start_time: "12:00"
			end_time: "13:00"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
			power: 0
			enable: true
		- schedule_slot: 2
			start_time: "18:00"
			end_time: "23:00"
			days: [mon, tue, wed, thu, fri]
			power: 1000
			enable: true
```

<img src="screenshots/automation-manual-schedule-multiple.png" alt="Multiple schedules automation" width="520" />

## `marstek.clear_manual_schedules`

Clear all manual schedule slots.

- `device_id` (required): target Marstek device

Note: This clears all 10 slots sequentially (protocol limitation), so it may take a short while.

<img src="screenshots/automation-clear-manual-schedule.png" alt="Clear schedules automation" width="520" />

## `marstek.request_data_sync`

Trigger an immediate refresh.

- `device_id` (optional): when omitted, all Marstek devices are refreshed

---

## Device Actions

The integration provides **device actions** for use in automations. These appear in the automation editor when you select "Device" as the action type and choose your Marstek battery.

<img src="screenshots/automation-action.png" alt="Device action in automation" width="520" />

### Charge battery

Starts charging the battery at the specified power.

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| Power (W) | No | Charge power in watts (0–5000). If omitted, uses the **Default charge power** from device options. |

### Discharge battery

Starts discharging the battery at the specified power.

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| Power (W) | No | Discharge power in watts (0–5000). If omitted, uses the **Default discharge power** from device options. |

### Stop charging/discharging

Immediately stops any active charge or discharge operation. No parameters required.

### Power validation

All device actions respect the **Socket limit** setting configured in [Options](options.md). If socket limit is enabled (default for Venus C/D/E), power values above 800 W will be rejected.

### Technical details

- Actions use **Manual mode** internally with a 24-hour schedule (00:00–23:59, all days)
- Commands include retry logic (up to 8 attempts) with exponential backoff
- Verification confirms the device responded correctly before completing
- Polling is paused during command execution to avoid UDP traffic conflicts

---

## Notes on safety & responsiveness

- The integration avoids concurrent UDP bursts; control actions are designed to pause polling while sending commands.
- If your device becomes unresponsive, increase request delay/timeout in [Options](options.md).
