docs/troubleshooting.md, before:

# Troubleshooting

## Device not discovered

- Confirm **Open API is enabled** in the Marstek app.
- Ensure HA and the device are on the **same LAN segment**.
- Confirm UDP **port 30000** is allowed (router/AP isolation can break discovery).

## Entities unavailable

- Check WiFi quality and network stability.
- Try `marstek.request_data_sync`.
- Increase request timeout/failures threshold in [Options](options.md).

## Connection instability

- Reduce request rate (increase fast/medium intervals).
- Ensure only one controller is talking to the device.

## Venus E2.0

Venus **E2.0 is not supported**.

## Debug logging

When reporting an issue, enabling debug logging helps us diagnose UDP communication and coordinator behavior.

### Preferred: enable debug logging from the UI (no restart)

1. Go to **Settings → Devices & Services**.
2. Open the **Marstek** integration.
3. Open the **⋮** menu → **Enable debug logging**.
4. Reproduce the problem.
5. Go back to the Marstek integration menu → **Disable debug logging** and download the log file.

Official Home Assistant docs: https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/configuration/troubleshooting/#enabling-debug-logging

### Advanced: configuration.yaml (logger integration)

Add to `configuration.yaml`:

```yaml
logger:
	default: warning
	logs:
		custom_components.marstek: debug
		custom_components.marstek.pymarstek: debug
```

Then reload/restart as appropriate.

Official Home Assistant docs: https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/logger/

### What to include in a bug report

- Home Assistant version + Marstek integration version
- Steps to reproduce
- Downloaded debug log (or the relevant excerpt around the error/traceback)
- Downloaded diagnostics (Marstek integration menu → **⋮ → Download diagnostics**)

Note: debug logs may include sensitive details; please only include what’s relevant.

Commit message:

Documentation: Clarify failure threshold behavior
Explains why the integration retains last known values during transient network or API instability, preventing unnecessary UI flapping until the configured "Failures before unavailable" threshold is reached. This addresses potential user confusion regarding entity status.

docs/troubleshooting.md, after:

# Troubleshooting

## Device not discovered

- Confirm **Open API is enabled** in the Marstek app.
- Ensure HA and the device are on the **same LAN segment**.
- Confirm UDP **port 30000** is allowed (router/AP isolation can break discovery).

## Entities unavailable

- Check WiFi quality and network stability.
- Try `marstek.request_data_sync`.
- Increase request timeout/failures threshold in [Options](options.md).

Note: Because the device Open API can be unstable, the integration keeps the
last known values during transient failures. Entities are marked unavailable
only after the configured "Failures before unavailable" threshold is reached.
This is expected behavior.

## Connection instability

- Reduce request rate (increase fast/medium intervals).
- Ensure only one controller is talking to the device.

## Venus E2.0

Venus **E2.0 is not supported**.

## Debug logging

When reporting an issue, enabling debug logging helps us diagnose UDP communication and coordinator behavior.

### Preferred: enable debug logging from the UI (no restart)

1. Go to **Settings → Devices & Services**.
2. Open the **Marstek** integration.
3. Open the **⋮** menu → **Enable debug logging**.
4. Reproduce the problem.
5. Go back to the Marstek integration menu → **Disable debug logging** and download the log file.

Official Home Assistant docs: https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/configuration/troubleshooting/#enabling-debug-logging

### Advanced: configuration.yaml (logger integration)

Add to `configuration.yaml`:

```yaml
logger:
	default: warning
	logs:
		custom_components.marstek: debug
		custom_components.marstek.pymarstek: debug
```

Then reload/restart as appropriate.

Official Home Assistant docs: https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/logger/

### What to include in a bug report

- Home Assistant version + Marstek integration version
- Steps to reproduce
- Downloaded debug log (or the relevant excerpt around the error/traceback)
- Downloaded diagnostics (Marstek integration menu → **⋮ → Download diagnostics**)

Note: debug logs may include sensitive details; please only include what’s relevant.
